All right guys.
Now we're going to get into functions and mix ins.
Now if you've ever worked with a programming language whether it's javascript HP any language at all
you've probably worked with functions.
It's basically just a block of code that you can keep calling so you don't have to keep repeating yourself.
So what I want to do is create a new SAS file a partial so to say new file underscore we'll call this
underscore functions dot SPSS.
OK.
And then in here I want to create a function to set the text color.
Now the difference between the main difference between a function and a mix in is a function actually
returns something you have to use the return keyword a mix in is just basically a set of styles that
you want to include.
OK.
And I'll I'll I'll give you some examples of this.
So to create a function we use the at symbol and we say function and we're gonna call this set dash
Tex dash color and by the way this is a very helpful function that I use all the time in SAS and it's
going to take in a parameter of a color.
All right.
Now we're gonna use what's called a color function along with a conditional to see the lightness of
the color that's passed in so to create a conditional we do what we do at the ad symbol and then f k
and then our condition goes in here.
So what we're testing is going to be the lightness case we have lightness of the color.
OK.
So basically whatever is passed in here rechecking the lightness and we want to see if it's greater
than 50.
OK so greater than basically 50 percent lightness.
If that's true then we want to return.
So we say at return and we want to return a dark.
I'm sorry.
Yeah dark color which we'll just do black.
OK.
Ls should we need to do at L so forget that at ls then we want to return a light color so we'll do white.
OK so it's going to get passed and the color which is gonna be the background color actually maybe we
should call this the colors fine just know that it's going to be the background color and it's gonna
check the lightness of it if it's greater than 50 meaning it's light then we want to return a dark color
if it's less than 50 meaning it's dark then we want a light color because obviously we want the text
to contrast so I'm going to save this and I'm just going to restart this down here NPM runs SAS and
I'm going to go in to my main dot SPSS and I'm going to import the functions file and then I want to
let's go to the header where we have right here the color of this H1 of this of this will basically
of anything that's in the header and I'm going to replace this with set dash text dash color.
All right.
Now this set text color takes in member a background color and we want to put him whatever we used here
is the background which in this case is dark color so we'll paste that in there.
And now let's save file to import not found or unreached unreachable it's because I called the file
function I actually want to call it functions
all right.
So we're just gonna restart NPM run SAS.
All right so let's reload.
Now it's going to look the same but if I now change the bat the header background to something light
like let's change it to light color and then we pass in the same the light color here and we save the
text is now dark OK.
If I do background primary color primary color it's going to evaluate the lightness of it.
And it found that the lightness is less than 50.
So it gives it a white background secondary color is a brighter color so I'm gonna bet that the text
is going to be dark.
So secondary color for the background and now the text is dark.
So it makes it dynamic so you don't have to if you if you want to change the background then you can
it'll dynamically change the text to whether it should be light or dark.
You don't have to decide that this function does it for you.
All right.
So I'm just going to put this back to dark like that.
And then I just want to use this sex set text color pretty much everywhere.
So we'll go down here and pay set in and we just want to pass on whatever the background is OK so we'll
do it here as well.
We'll set this to secondary color
and let's do it.
Here this has light color as background.
And then down here this has dark color as a background.
So once I save this it should all still be correct.
So save.
And this actually changed to dark because of the light background.
OK.
And that.
Yeah.
That's it.
So hopefully that makes sense.
Guys it just this is helpful because it allows us to basically set the color dynamically but functions
in general are helpful so that you don't have to keep repeating code.
And so are mixed in.
So now we're going to look at creating a Mixon and all I want this Mixon to do.
We're gonna put it right in the function's file is I want it to add a transform.
OK.
So basically if we want to like you know if we want it to add a transform to make this button curve
or something like that we can do that.
So let's say this is going to be the transform mix in.
And once we start doing this stuff in the next project it'll make more sense as well.
So a Mixon we're gonna say at mix in and then name and I'm just gonna call it transform and it's gonna
take in a property.
OK.
Now in some cases you may want to use prefixes for for newer CSX and that's another good reason to to
use mix ins we can like let's say we wanted to do Web Kit dash transform.
This should be a dash.
So Web Kit transform.
Set it to property and maybe you want to do dash M S dash transform
and set that to property.
And then of course just transform said that to property.
OK.
So if you have a block of styles that you don't want to keep repeating in your first your sass you can
just put it into a mix in.
So now if I want to go back to my main J asked and let's say on the hover state of these buttons I want
to add a transform that rotates them a little bit so I'll go right here and let's put in Ampersand hover
and let's set the mix in now to include a mix and you actually have to do the at include and then the
name of the mix in which is transform.
OK in the property we want to pass in is gonna be lots to rotate and let's rotate it 20 degrees OK and
I'm going to do the same thing for the dark.
So paste that in if it's dark though let's do it let's do negative 20 we'll try to rotate it the opposite
way.
So if I save now and I hover over this you'll see it rotates 20 degrees.
This one rotates that way.
OK.
So instead of using this these three lines in both of these places I can put it in the mix in and just
include that.
OK.
I mean you don't really need web kitten Hamas anymore for transform however.
You know if it's a different if it's a newer CSX property that you do need you know prefixes this is
a good way to include them.
OK.
And not just for prefixes but for anything any set of styles that you're going to reuse.
So let's see the last thing I want to show you is some of the color functions we have lighting and darken
let's say in addition to just tilting these we want them to either darken our light in a little bit.
So in the hover here I'm going to set the background dash color.
So the background color is is this light color by default let's say I just want to darken it a little
bit so we can say darken.
So this is a predefined function.
I don't have to create it.
And we just pass in two things the color we want.
So we'll say light color and then how much we want to darken it.
We're going to do 10 percent.
OK.
So save that.
Now when I hover over it.
Notice that the color darkens 10 percent.
OK.
We also have light.
So I'm going to just copy what I just did go down here to this hover and let's change this to lighten
ups lighten.
And this has the dark color and we're going to lighten it 10 percent.
So we'll save.
And then on a hover over it you'll see that at lightning 10 percent.
All right.
So you can see that there's some really cool functionality with SAS it really allows us to write our
CSX more like a programming language conditionals you can't do this stuff with standard CSX premade
functions and mix ins you can do variables however you can see that the variables with SAS are much
more elegant.
You know you don't have to do the VAR in the parentheses and you know stuff like that.
All right.
So hopefully this little crash course or the sandbox made sense in the next video we're going to start
to build a real project using SAS which will be a portfolio Web site.
All right.
So I will see you in the next project.